---
source: https://www.perell.com/blog/50-ideas-that-changed-my-life
author: David Perell
---

# 50 Ideas that changed my life
1.  [[inversion]]
2.  [[doublespeak]]
3.  [[theory-of-constraints]]
4.  [[preference-falsification]]
5.  [[faustian-bargain]]
6.  [[mimetic-theory-of-desire]]
7.  [[mimetic-theory-of-conflict]]
8.  [[talent-vs-genius]]
9.  [[competition-is-for-losers]]
10. [[secrets-are-hidden-in-plain-sight]]
11. [[never-ending-now]]
12. [[demand-curves-slope-down]]
13. [[things-that-dont-make-sense]]
14. [[wisdom-of-paradox]]
15. [[law-of-shitty-click-through-rates]]
16. [[russell-conjugation]]
17. [[opportunity-cost]]
18. [[overton-window]]
19. [[plancks-principle]]
20. [[bike-shed-effect]]
21. [[table-selection]]
22. [[goodharts-law]]
23. [[galls-law]]
24. [[hock-principle]]
25. [[parkinsons-law]]
26. [[second-law-of-thermodynamics]]
27. [[paradox-of-specificity]]
28. [[emergence]]
29. [[occams-razor]]
30. [[hickams-dictum]]
31. [[hormesis]]
32. [[robustness-principle]]
33. [[legibility]]
34. [[horseshoe-theory]]
35. [[availability-cascade]]
36. [[creativity-begins-at-the-edge]]
37. [[copernican-principle]]
38. [[personal-monopoly]]
39. [[paradox-of-consensus]]
40. [[penny-problem-gap]]
41. [[invisible-hand]]
42. [[base-rate]]
43. [[circle-of-competence]]
44. [[convexity]]
45. [[go-for-it-window]]
46. [[via-negativa]]
47. [[medium-is-the-message]]
48. [[resource-curse]] 
49. [[paradox-of-abundance]]
50. [[map-is-not-the-territory]]
51. [[bakers-dozen]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[inversion]: ../principles/inversion.md "Inversion"
[doublespeak]: ../principles/doublespeak.md "Doublespeak"
[theory-of-constraints]: ../principles/theory-of-constraints.md "Theory of Constraints"
[preference-falsification]: ../principles/preference-falsification.md "Preference Falsification"
[faustian-bargain]: ../principles/faustian-bargain.md "Faustian Bargain"
[mimetic-theory-of-desire]: ../principles/mimetic-theory-of-desire.md "Mimetic Theory of Desire"
[mimetic-theory-of-conflict]: ../principles/mimetic-theory-of-conflict.md "Mimetic Theory of Conflict"
[talent-vs-genius]: ../principles/talent-vs-genius.md "Talent vs Genius"
[competition-is-for-losers]: ../principles/competition-is-for-losers.md "Competition is for Losers"
[secrets-are-hidden-in-plain-sight]: ../principles/secrets-are-hidden-in-plain-sight.md "Secrets are Hidden in Plain Sight"
[never-ending-now]: ../principles/never-ending-now.md "The Never Ending Now"
[demand-curves-slope-down]: ../principles/demand-curves-slope-down.md "Demand Curves slope Down"
[things-that-dont-make-sense]: ../principles/things-that-dont-make-sense.md "Look for Things that Don't Make Sense"
[wisdom-of-paradox]: ../principles/wisdom-of-paradox.md "The Wisdom of Paradox"
[law-of-shitty-click-through-rates]: ../principles/law-of-shitty-click-through-rates.md "Law of Shitty Click-Through Rates"
[russell-conjugation]: ../principles/russell-conjugation.md "Russell Conjugation"
[opportunity-cost]: ../principles/opportunity-cost.md "Opportunity Cost"
[overton-window]: ../principles/overton-window.md "Overton Window"
[plancks-principle]: ../principles/plancks-principle.md "Planck's Principle"
[bike-shed-effect]: ../principles/bike-shed-effect.md "Bike-Shed Effect"
[table-selection]: ../principles/table-selection.md "Table Selection"
[goodharts-law]: ../principles/goodharts-law.md "Goodhart's Law"
[galls-law]: ../principles/galls-law.md "Gall's Law"
[hock-principle]: ../principles/hock-principle.md "Hock Principle"
[parkinsons-law]: ../principles/parkinsons-law.md "Parkinson's Law"
[second-law-of-thermodynamics]: ../principles/second-law-of-thermodynamics.md "Second Law of Thermodynamics"
[paradox-of-specificity]: ../principles/paradox-of-specificity.md "The Paradox of Specificity"
[emergence]: ../principles/emergence.md "Emergence"
[occams-razor]: ../principles/occams-razor.md "Occam's Razor"
[hickams-dictum]: ../principles/hickams-dictum.md "Hickam's Dictum"
[hormesis]: ../principles/hormesis.md "Hormesis"
[robustness-principle]: ../principles/robustness-principle.md "Robustness Principle"
[legibility]: ../principles/legibility.md "Legibility"
[horseshoe-theory]: ../principles/horseshoe-theory.md "Horseshoe Theory"
[availability-cascade]: ../principles/availability-cascade.md "Availability Cascade"
[creativity-begins-at-the-edge]: ../principles/creativity-begins-at-the-edge.md "Creativity Begins at the Edge"
[personal-monopoly]: ../principles/personal-monopoly.md "Personal Monopoly"
[paradox-of-consensus]: ../principles/paradox-of-consensus.md "Paradox of Consensus"
[penny-problem-gap]: ../principles/penny-problem-gap.md "Penny Problem Gap"
[invisible-hand]: ../principles/invisible-hand.md "The Invisible Hand"
[base-rate]: ../principles/base-rate.md "Base Rate"
[circle-of-competence]: ../principles/circle-of-competence.md "Circle of Competence"
[convexity]: ../principles/convexity.md "Convexity"
[go-for-it-window]: ../principles/go-for-it-window.md "The Go-For-It Window"
[via-negativa]: ../principles/via-negativa.md "Via Negativa"
[medium-is-the-message]: ../principles/medium-is-the-message.md "The Medium is the Message"
[resource-curse]: ../principles/resource-curse.md "Resource Curse"
[paradox-of-abundance]: ../principles/paradox-of-abundance.md "The Paradox of Abundance"
[map-is-not-the-territory]: ../principles/map-is-not-the-territory.md "The Map is not the Territory"
[bakers-dozen]: ../principles/bakers-dozen.md "Baker's Dozen"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"